#summary Where and how to get parts needed to start using a LED matrix
 #sidebar TableOfContents

 * [http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step01_Parts?ts=1360902125&updated=Step01_Parts#Arduino Arduino]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step01_Parts?ts=1360902125&updated=Step01_Parts#LED_Matrix LED Matrix]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step01_Parts?ts=1360902248&updated=Step01_Parts#MAXIM's_MAX7219/MAX7221 MAXIM's MAX7219/MAX7221]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step01_Parts?ts=1360902279&updated=Step01_Parts#Capacitors Capacitors]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step01_Parts?ts=1360902306&updated=Step01_Parts#Resistors Resistors]
----
= Arduino =

Duh! I'm using an UNO but it doesn't matter which one, we only need three pins (more on this later).   
----
= LED Matrix =

The YSM-1288CR3G2C is a dual color LED matrix that you can buy from [https://www.sparkfun.com/search/results?term=LED+Matrix&what=products Sparkfun.com]. They have a small for $5, medium for $7, and a large tri-color for $30.

I used the medium sized matrix and the width of the chip is quite large. As a word of caution, you may need a breadboard with two columns (twice the width of a typical breadboard) to access the pins.
----
= MAXIM's MAX7219/MAX7221 =

The 7219 and 7221 are basically the same chip, it shouldn't matter which you use. I used the MAX7221 because if you go to this [https://shop.maximintegrated.com/storefront/searchsample.do MAXIM LINK], and search for MAX7221CNG+, you can get free samples of the chip!!!

     note: before you order your free samples, be aware that they wont take personal email accounts when you register. You have to use your school email address to get around this.
*How to order
  # [https://shop.maximintegrated.com/storefront/searchsample.do GO HERE] and search for MAX7221CNG+ 
  # Click the "sample now" link in the right most column
  # Click the "sample cart" directly below the sites search bar in the top right
  # The initial quantity is set to two, but I changed it to four and still got them for free. (I dont know if there is a cap)
  # Tell them roughly how many hours in a year you plan on using the chip(s)
  # Click the "checkout" link
  # From here on, you just fill out your information
----
= Capacitors =

For every MAX chip you need the following:
 * 10.0 microF capacitor
 * 0.1 microF capacitor (aka 100 nanoF)

You can get 10 of both at [http://www.amazon.com/Joe-Knows-Electronics-Value-Capacitor/dp/B007SVHFXO/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1361107004&sr=8-1&keywords=capacitors this link here.]
----
= Resistors =

With the MAX chips, you only need one resistor per 8x8 color matrix. So there is no need to have tons of resistors for all the LED's.

First things first, determine the "forward current" and "forward voltage" of each LED color on your matrix datasheet. If you are using the dual color chip I used (small or medium), the forward current for both red and green is 20 mA. The forward voltage for red is 2 v and green is 3.3 v.

Use the table below to determine the resistor you need for each MAX chip to control a single color on the matrix. 

||I,,F,,(mA) ||||||||||Forward Voltage (V)||
|| ||1.5||2.0||2.5||3.0||3.5||
||40||12.2 kOhm||11.8 kOhm||11.0 kOhm||10.6 kOhm||9.69 kOhm||
||30||17.8 kOhm||17.1 kOhm||15.8 kOhm||15.0 kOhm||14.0 kOhm||
||20||29.8 kOhm||28.0 kOhm||25.9 kOhm||24.5 kOhm||22.6 kOhm||
||10||66.7 kOhm||63.7 kOhm||59.3 kOhm||55.4 kOhm||51.2 kOhm||

The same table can be found in the MAX7219/MAX7221 datasheet.
According to the table, I need a 28 kOhm resistor for my MAX that will control the red, and a 22.6 kOhm resistor for my MAX that will control the green. I didn't have either so I used a 33 kOhm for red and 27 kOhm for green. If you don't have a particular resistor, you can substitute it with a larger resistor. Your LED's may be dimmer but its better than destroying them.

[http://www.amazon.com/Joe-Knows-Electronics-Value-Resistor/dp/B003UC4FSS/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1361106992&sr=8-2&keywords=resistors This link] goes to a nice variety resistors for only $20. 
----

*[http://code.google.com/p/ysm-1288cr3g2c/wiki/Step02_Pins_and_Wiring Next Page: Pins and Wireing]*

*Would you recommend this?*
 <g:plusone size="large"></g:plusone>